**In vitro and in vivo confirmation of the predictions:**

Prior in vitro cell physiology assays confirmed that SHP-1 inhibition does not alter cell viability, proliferation rate, or propensity for programmed cell death in macrophages (Extended Data Figure 2g-i, Ref.1). Efferocytosis assays also demonstrated that the phagocytotic efficiency of macrophages against apoptotic vascular cells were markedly enhanced by SHP-1i nanoparticles (Figure 1g, Ref.1). 
Additionally, the effect of a pro-efferocytic CD47-SIRPα blockade (CD47 blockade or SHP-1 inhibition) was previously thoroughly investigated in vivo. Those conducted studies showed that pro-efferocytic CD47-SIRPα blockade was associated with smaller plaque size and necrotic cores (murine data; Figure 2a and 2h, Ref.2; Figure 3a and 3d, Ref.1), with reduced plaque vulnerability (murine data; Figure 2E-L, Ref.3), and with reduced vascular inflammation measured by 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose-Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (murine, porcine, and human data; Figure 3f, Ref.1; Figure 1C, Ref.3; Figure 3d, Ref.4; Figure 1B-C, Ref.5). Furthermore, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (known as statins) reduce the expression of CD47 and thus amplify the anti-atherosclerotic effect of CD47-SIRPα blockade, in an additive manner (murine and human data; Figure 2 and 4h, Ref.6). In conclusion, these data highlight the potential therapeutic benefits of a pro-efferocytic therapy and are completely in line with the new results of the in silico random forest classifier method of SHP-1 inhibition in human atherosclerosis.


**References**

1.	Flores AM, Hosseini-Nassab N, Jarr KU, Ye J, Zhu X, Wirka R, Koh AL, Tsantilas P, Wang Y, Nanda V, et al. Pro-efferocytic nanoparticles are specifically taken up by lesional macrophages and prevent atherosclerosis. Nat Nanotechnol. 2020;15:154-161. doi: 10.1038/s41565-019-0619-3 
2.	Kojima Y, Volkmer JP, McKenna K, Civelek M, Lusis AJ, Miller CL, Direnzo D, Nanda V, Ye J, Connolly AJ, et al. CD47-blocking antibodies restore phagocytosis and prevent atherosclerosis. Nature. 2016;536:86-90. doi: nature18935 [pii] 
10.1038/nature18935 
3.	Jarr KU, Ye J, Kojima Y, Nanda V, Flores AM, Tsantilas P, Wang Y, Hosseini-Nassab N, Eberhard AV, Lotfi M, et al. (18)F-Fluorodeoxyglucose-Positron Emission Tomography Imaging Detects Response to Therapeutic Intervention and Plaque Vulnerability in a Murine Model of Advanced Atherosclerotic Disease-Brief Report. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2020;40:2821-2828. doi: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.120.315239 
4.	Bamezai S, Zhang Y, Kumari M, Lotfi M, Alsaigh T, Luo L, Kumar GS, Wang F, Ye J, Puri M, et al. Pro-efferocytic nanotherapies reduce vascular inflammation without inducing anemia in a large animal model of atherosclerosis. Nat Commun. 2024;15:8034. doi: 10.1038/s41467-024-52005-1 
5.	Jarr KU, Nakamoto R, Doan BH, Kojima Y, Weissman IL, Advani RH, Iagaru A, Leeper NJ. Effect of CD47 Blockade on Vascular Inflammation. N Engl J Med. 2021;384:382-383. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc2029834 
6.	Jarr KU, Ye J, Kojima Y, Ye Z, Gao H, Schmid S, Luo L, Baylis RA, Lotfi M, Lopez N, et al. The pleiotropic benefits of statins include the ability to reduce CD47 and amplify the effect of pro-efferocytic therapies in atherosclerosis. Nat Cardiovasc Res. 2022;1:253-262.  
